# Basic Workflow for a local directory with .txt files

## Make a new directory and create some basic files

> [!NOTE]
> You can use the IDE of your choice to work with these files (.py, .cpp, etc), but I'll just be using notepad since I'll just be using .txt files here.

Create a directory to work in and start notepad with a .txt file.

> CMD

```console
mkdir testdir
start notepad data.txt
```

Let's just include some basic data

> data.txt

```
name, age, balance
john doe, 30, 12000
jane smith, 25, 13000
```

Thus far, we just have one file in our test directory. We haven't initiated git to check this you can type 

> CMD

```console
git status
```

You'll see a message saying the directory is not a git repository
You can also run the following two commands to see some basic help options

> CMD

```console
git
git help
```

Let's initialize a git repository

> CMD

```console
git init
```

You'll see a message saying that you have an *empty* git repo
Now you can check that the data.txt file has been detected but that we haven't done anything with it. 

> CMD

```console
git status
```

We can now stage the file to get it ready to be commited

> CMD

```console
git add data.txt
```

> [!NOTE]
> You may be asked to configure the user. You'll need to add a username and email. We'll do this locally not globally, so these can be made up for now.
> Run the following with your username and email in place of <myemail@email.com> (don't include the angle brackets).

> CMD

```console
git config user.email <myemail@email.com>
git config user.name <myusername>
```

Now we can finally commit the data.txt file to our repo. You'll be required to include a message with the change you just made.

> CMD

```console
git commit -m "adding some data to the repo"
```

Note that you don't have to tell git what to commit. It will commit everything that was added to the stage in the git add phase from before.
Now we can check our past commits using one of two commands. Try both!

> CMD

```console
git log
git show
```





